docs: document wasm debug process (#1341)
0xMiden/miden-client: crates/web-client/docs/debug.md

# Debugging WASM

When debugging WASM, it can be hard to trace the origin of an error since stack traces are not really useful.
The typical situation is that you're running a frontend app from JS and get an unreadeable stacktrace.
We can generate a debug build with symbols to help us trace these errors. This doc explains how to set it up.

## Requirements
    - `yarn`
    - Compatible Rust version
    - Chrome browser
    - You will need to install this [extension](https://goo.gle/wasm-debugging-extension).

>       Despite the name, it will also work with WASM-generated Rust Files

Author: [Removed](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-client/pull/1341/commits/b351af2a3de91f7080e8230366d2e08ffc4512f6#diff-4b01f3881378ce817a0e620ded00e3623e2a8a525cde32e6989adb778139cdb9L11)

  - [source](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt).
 The WABT package provides an `wasm-obj` binary, which you can use like so:
 ```
 wasm-objdump --headers dist/workers/assets/miden_client_web.wasm
 ```
 If the debug symbols are present, you should see a bunch of "debug" headers.
 An example of an output like this would be:
 ```
   Custom start=0x00a85ee7 end=0x00a85f63 (size=0x0000007c) "producers"
   Custom start=0x00a85f67 end=0x00bc6700 (size=0x00140799) ".debug_abbrev"
   Custom start=0x00bc6705 end=0x03f1989b (size=0x03353196) ".debug_str"
   Custom start=0x03f198a0 end=0x0480968b (size=0x008efdeb) ".debug_line"
   Custom start=0x04809690 end=0x04c347ae (size=0x0042b11e) ".debug_ranges"
   Custom start=0x04c347b3 end=0x059ae810 (size=0x00d7a05d) ".debug_loc"
   Custom start=0x059ae815 end=0x09113060 (size=0x0376484b) ".debug_info"
 ```
    
## Using the debug symbols

Once you have both the debug WASM and the Chrome extension, we need to link
the dependency to the JS app we're debugging .

1. Link the package, cd to: `miden-client/crates/web-client` and run:
```
yarn link 
```
2. In the root of the project you're debugging, run this:
```
yarn link "@demox-labs/miden-sdk"

> ```

Author: I've added a make target for step 1 (see my comment above).

> Maybe this comes from me not understanding the conceptual difference between step 1 and step 2.

Step 1 simply links the local dependency as the one to use for any imports named `@demox-labs/miden-sdk`.
Step 2 only tells yarn to use the dependency defined in step 1.

It's documented [here](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/link/)

3. When you open the devtools with chrome, you will see an output like this:
![dev-tools-output](./devtools-output.png).

You should also be able to see the rust source in the devtools source tab:
![source-example](./source-example.png)

Also, you should seed friendlier stack-traces:
![stack-trace-example](./stack-trace-example.png)

## Relevant changes

> These changes are already reflected in the codebase, but the settings to make the release build have debug symbols are the following:

Author: Yes, you're right. This is more of an internal change description, I thought it would be useful if another maintainer wants to understand or extend the debug build. Maybe this is out of place for guide, but I also don't want for these changes to get lost, maybe we should move them to another file? The rollup config.js maybe? What do you think?

# Debugging WASM

When debugging WASM, it can be hard to trace the origin of an error since stack traces are not really useful.
The typical situation is that you're running a frontend app from JS and get an unreadeable stacktrace.

> We can generate a debug build with symbols to help us trace these errors, this document is the setup for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can generate a debug build with symbols to help us trace these errors. This doc explains how to set it up.
```

> 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
```

## Requirements

>     - yarn
>     - rust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `yarn`
    - Compatible Rust version
```

    - Chrome browser
    - You will need to install this [extension](https://goo.gle/wasm-debugging-extension).
      Despite the name, it will also work with WASM-generated Rust Files
    
## Building with debug symbols

1. cd into to the root of the web-client project, that is: `miden-client/crates/web-client`.
2. build the dev profile with: 
   ```yarn build-dev```

> 3. Once it finishes, the rust build log should print this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once it finishes, the Rust build log should print this:
```

  ```
    Finished `dev` profile [optimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 38.33s
  ```

>   4. (Optional), to double check the debug symbols have been generated, you can install
>   the Web Assembly Binary Toolkit. A few sources are:
>   - [brew package manger](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/wabt)

Reviewer: minor typo and nit:
```suggestion
  4. (Optional) To double-check that debug symbols were generated, install the WebAssembly Binary Toolkit (WABT). Sources:
  - [brew package manager](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/wabt)
```
I also added `(WABT)` so that the rest of the doc can refer to it with the acronym

  
  - [nix packages](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/25e53aa156d47bad5082ff7618f5feb1f5e02d01/pkgs/by-name/wa/wabt/package.nix#L27)

>  - [ubuntu](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wabt)  (not tested)

Reviewer: nit: I'd remove the `(not tested)` or just take out the item

 - [source](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt).

>  The wabt package provides an `wasm-obj` binary, which you can use like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The WABT package provides an `wasm-obj` binary, which you can use like so:
```

 ```
 wasm-objdump --headers dist/workers/assets/miden_client_web.wasm
 ```
 If the debug symbols are present, you should see a bunch of "debug" headers.
 An example of an output like this would be:
 ```
   Custom start=0x00a85ee7 end=0x00a85f63 (size=0x0000007c) "producers"
   Custom start=0x00a85f67 end=0x00bc6700 (size=0x00140799) ".debug_abbrev"
   Custom start=0x00bc6705 end=0x03f1989b (size=0x03353196) ".debug_str"
   Custom start=0x03f198a0 end=0x0480968b (size=0x008efdeb) ".debug_line"
   Custom start=0x04809690 end=0x04c347ae (size=0x0042b11e) ".debug_ranges"
   Custom start=0x04c347b3 end=0x059ae810 (size=0x00d7a05d) ".debug_loc"
   Custom start=0x059ae815 end=0x09113060 (size=0x0376484b) ".debug_info"
 ```
    
## Using the debug symbols

> Once you have both the debug wasm and the chrome extension, we need to link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have both the debug WASM and the Chrome extension, we need to link
```

the dependency to the JS app we're debugging .

> 1. Link the package, cd to: `miden-client/crates/web-client and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Link the package, cd to: `miden-client/crates/web-client` and run:
```

```
yarn link 
```
2. In the root of the project you're debugging, run this:
```
yarn link "@demox-labs/miden-sdk"
```
3. When you open the devtools with chrome, you will see an output like this:
![dev-tools-output](./devtools-output.png).

You should also be able to see the rust source in the devtools source tab:
![source-example](./source-example.png)

Also, you should seed friendlier stack-traces:
![stack-trace-example](./stack-trace-example.png)

## Relevant changes

> This changes are already reflected in the codebase, but the settings to make the dev build have debug symbols are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes are already reflected in the codebase, but the settings to make the dev build have debug symbols are the following:
```

> 1. The root Cargo.toml needs to optimize the dev profile for size, otherwise it wont compile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The root `Cargo.toml` needs to optimize the dev profile for size, otherwise it won't compile:
```

```
[profile.dev]
opt-level = "s"
```

> 2. In the rollup.config.js the relevante options for the rust plugin are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `rollup.config.js` the relevant options for the Rust plugin are:
```
